# LibraryAnalyzer

This is a python application that stores Apple Music library information over time and provides lists, metrics, charts and other analyses of the data collected. The data is gathered from an XML file generated by the Apple Music desktop application. This file is a snapshot of the library at that point in time. This program parses that file and loads data into a MySQL database. To see how your library changes over time, regularly generate new XML files from Apple music and load them into the database. 

This method was used as a free, but more labor inensive alternative to Apple's pre-existing APIs.

In operating systems pre-Catalina, iTunes allowed 3rd party applications to have access to an updated XML file at all times. This support ended with MacOS Catalina. As a result, the XML file must be generated manually. 

### Dependencies:<br> 
* Python<br>
* MySQL<br>
* xml.etree.ElementTree<br>
* mysql-connector-python<br>
* numpy<br>
* matplotlib
* squarify
* pandas
* altair


To start, change the login credentials in the SQLConnector init method to your own. 

Then Go to iTunes/Apple Music, select File > Library > Export Library<br>
* save into a directory called lib_backups in the project folder.<br>
* if you want to use the load all feature for multiple XML files, you must name the files 1.xml, 2.xml... in the order in which they were exported from Apple music.

Now run main.py, give it a database name and load your library into the database using the 'u' command. 

entering 'h' will print a list of commands. 

